---
title: 'July 29, 2024 - Running CRON Jobs on Modal'
date: 2024-07-29T11:31:22-07:00
showToc: true
TocOpen: false
draft: false
hidemeta: false
comments: false
disableShare: false
disableHLJS: false
hideSummary: false
searchHidden: false
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
ShowWordCount: true
ShowRssButtonInSectionTermList: true
UseHugoToc: true
---

Recently, I've been working to migrate my own personal infrastructure off of Kubernetes, given that it has become quite
expensive to run for just a single hosted website. For example, on Linode, the smallest cluster (3 nodes), along with a
load balancer, and several disks, was approaching 50$ a month. Indeed, what did I actually use my cluster for? I used it
for hosting one-off websites for a couple of days, and then tearing them down, I used it for my own personal website,
and I used it for a host of CRON jobs that have to run every hour or every couple of days. The one-off websites I could
easily migrate to vercel, and my personal website I migrated to Cloudflare Pages + static site generation (11ty), but
the CRON jobs were a bit trickier. Luckily, I found [Modal](https://modal.com/), a service for serverless compute which
allows running compute on a schedule (with a bit of configuration).

All of my cron jobs were python scripts - so they already fit with Modal's supported languages. The first thing to do
was to install the Modal pip package, which is as simple as running `pip install modal`. Then sign up for an account on
the modal website: [https://modal.com/](https://modal.com/). You can then log in using the CLI with `modal setup`.

The next step was to create a model app. In the example, I'll run a simple script which makes a GET request to a
URL every hour.

```python
import modal
import requests


app = modal.App(name="example-cron-job")

@app.function()
def main():
    requests.get("https://example.com")
```

Unfortunately, that's not enough, since "requests" is not a built-in python module. To fix this, we need to create an
image on which Modal can run:

```python
import modal
import requests

app = modal.App(name="example-cron-job")
image = modal.Image.debian_slim(python_version="3.10").pip_install("requests")

@app.function(image=image)
def main():
    requests.get("https://example.com")
```

Now that we have the image, we can setup the schedule:

```python
import modal
import requests

app = modal.App(name="example-cron-job")
image = modal.Image.debian_slim(python_version="3.10").pip_install("requests")

@app.function(image=image, schedule=modal.Cron("0 * * * *"))
def main():
    requests.get("https://example.com")
```

Here, the schedule is set to run every hour. The final step is to deploy the app:

```bash
modal deploy example-cron-job.py
```

This will deploy the app to Modal's infrastructure, and it will run every hour. The pricing is a bit hard to estimate,
since jobs are chaged by CPU/Memory-seconds, however it comes with a pretty generous free tier of 30$/month, and in the
20-30 odd jobs that I've run so far, I haven't even used 0.01$, so it's quite cheap.
